docs: Getting started rewrite (#16497)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/get-started/quick-start/tutorial.md

<!-- INTERACTIVE copy START -->
```logql
sum by (service_name) (rate({env="production"} | logfmt [$__auto]))
```
<!-- INTERACTIVE copy END -->
This is made possible by the `service_name` label and the `env` label that we have added to our log lines. Note that `env` is a static label that we added to all log lines as they are processed by Alloy.

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step5.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step6.md START -->

## A look under the hood

At this point you will have a running Loki stack and a sample application generating logs. You have also queried Loki using Grafana Logs Drilldown and Grafana Explore. 
In this next section we will take a look under the hood to understand how the Loki stack has been configured to collect logs, the Loki configuration file, and how the Loki data source has been configured in Grafana.

### Grafana Alloy configuration

Grafana Alloy is collecting logs from all the Docker containers and forwarding them to Loki. 
It needs a configuration file to know which logs to collect and where to forward them to. Within the `loki-fundamentals` directory, you will find a file called `config.alloy`:

> 

Reviewer: Do we have some kind of `docs ignore` command in the transformations?  Because I think we need to tell the user to click the *Editor* tab in the Killercoda environment before we ask them to look at the `config.alloy` file.

Author: aaaah really good point

```yaml
auth_enabled: false

server:
  http_listen_port: 3100
  grpc_listen_port: 9096
  log_level: info
  grpc_server_max_concurrent_streams: 1000

common:
  instance_addr: 127.0.0.1
  path_prefix: /tmp/loki
  storage:
    filesystem:
      chunks_directory: /tmp/loki/chunks
      rules_directory: /tmp/loki/rules
  replication_factor: 1
  ring:
    kvstore:
      store: inmemory

query_range:
  results_cache:
    cache:
      embedded_cache:
        enabled: true
        max_size_mb: 100

limits_config:
  metric_aggregation_enabled: true
  allow_structured_metadata: true
  volume_enabled: true
  retention_period: 24h   # 24h

schema_config:
  configs:
    - from: 2020-10-24
      store: tsdb
      object_store: filesystem
      schema: v13
      index:
        prefix: index_
        period: 24h

pattern_ingester:
  enabled: true
  metric_aggregation:
    loki_address: localhost:3100

ruler:
  enable_alertmanager_discovery: true
  enable_api: true
  
frontend:
  encoding: protobuf

compactor:
  working_directory: /tmp/loki/retention
  delete_request_store: filesystem
  retention_enabled: true
```
To summarize the configuration file:

> * **auth_enabled**: This is set to false, meaning Loki does not need a [tenant ID](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/multi-tenancy/) for ingest or query. Note that this is not recommended for production environments. When deploying the Loki Helm chart, this is set to true by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **auth_enabled**: This is set to `false`, meaning Loki does not need a [tenant ID](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/operations/multi-tenancy/) for ingest or query. Note that this is not recommended for production environments. When deploying the Loki Helm chart, this is set to `true` by default.
```

* **common**:  Defines the common configuration for Loki. This includes the instance address, storage configuration, replication factor, and ring configuration.
* **query_range**: This is configured to tell Loki to use inbuilt caching for query results. In production environments of Loki this is handled by a separate cache service such as memcached.
* **limits_config**: Defines the global limits for all Loki tenants. This includes enabling specific features such as metric aggregation and structured metadata. Limits can be defined on a per tenant basis, however this is considered an advanced configuration and for most use cases the global limits are sufficient.
* **schema_config**: Defines the schema configuration for Loki. This includes the schema version, the object store, and the index configuration.
* **pattern_ingester**: Enables pattern ingesters which are used to discover log patterns. Mostly used by Grafana Logs Drilldown.
* **ruler**: Enables the ruler component of Loki. This is used to create alerts based on log queries.
* **frontend**: Defines the encoding format for the frontend. In this case it is set to `protobuf`.

> * **compactor**: Defines the compactor configuration. Used to compact the index and mange chunk retention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **compactor**: Defines the compactor configuration. Used to compact the index and manage chunk retention.
```

The above configuration file is a basic configuration file for Loki. For more advanced configuration options, refer to the [Loki Configuration](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/configuration/) documentation.

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step7.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step8.md START -->

### Grafana Loki Data source

> The final piece of the puzzle is the Grafana Loki datasource. This is used by Grafana to connect to Loki and query the logs. Grafana has multiple ways to define a datasource;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final piece of the puzzle is the Grafana Loki data source. This is used by Grafana to connect to Loki and query the logs. Grafana has multiple ways to define a data source;
```

> * **Direct**: This is where you define the datasource in the Grafana UI.
> * **Provisioning**: This is where you define the datasource in a configuration file and have Grafana automatically create the datasource.
> * **API**: This is where you use the Grafana API to create the datasource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Direct**: This is where you define the data source in the Grafana UI.
* **Provisioning**: This is where you define the data source in a configuration file and have Grafana automatically create the data source.
* **API**: This is where you use the Grafana API to create the data source.
```

In this case we are using the provisioning method. Instead of mounting the Grafana configuration directory, we have defined the data source in this portion of the `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml 
  grafana:
    image: grafana/grafana:latest
    environment:
      - GF_FEATURE_TOGGLES_ENABLE=grafanaManagedRecordingRules
      - GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ORG_ROLE=Admin
      - GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ENABLED=true
      - GF_AUTH_BASIC_ENABLED=false
    ports:
      - 3000:3000/tcp
    entrypoint:
       - sh
       - -euc
       - |
         mkdir -p /etc/grafana/provisioning/datasources
         cat <<EOF > /etc/grafana/provisioning/datasources/ds.yaml
         apiVersion: 1
         datasources:
         - name: Loki
           type: loki
           access: proxy
           orgId: 1
           url: 'http://loki:3100'
           basicAuth: false
           isDefault: true
           version: 1
           editable: true 
         EOF
         /run.sh
    networks:
      - loki
```

> Within the entrypoint section of the `docker-compose.yml` file, we have defined a file called `run.sh` this runs on startup and creates the datasource configuration file `ds.yaml` in the Grafana provisioning directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the entrypoint section of the `docker-compose.yml` file, we have defined a file called `run.sh` this runs on startup and creates the data source configuration file `ds.yaml` in the Grafana provisioning directory. 
```

> This file defines the Loki datasource and tells Grafana to use it. Since Loki is running in the same Docker network as Grafana, we can use the service name `loki` as the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file defines the Loki data source and tells Grafana to use it. Since Loki is running in the same Docker network as Grafana, we can use the service name `loki` as the URL.
```
